---
layout: post
title: Books I finished in 2018
tags: [books, novel, reading, fiction, productivity]
comments: true
---

I finished seven books in 2018 which is five less than the 2017's count. I tried to read more books this time but surprisingly this year was also the year of some awesome video games. Which asked for some trade off. In the end it was a fair trade I would say. If you are interested in video games, keep watching this space, I'll be writing about those games in another post.  

#### __Here goes the list:__
1. __The Death of Ivan Ilych:__ A short book written by Leo Tolstoy on the topic of life and death. What I got from the book is that being rigid about some petty things, can put you in awful circumstances sometime. How life flashes back in front of our eyes and we regret every choice that lead to this day when the inevitable is here. The plot is pretty straight forward and it can be finished in one or two sittings. If you are the person who likes to read about absurdism and fragility of life, this book is for you.  

2. __The Hobbit:__ I had always wanted to read the LOTR series but I was never able to read past few starting pages. Whenever I start and see that my reader app is showing more than ten hours to finish the book, I leave it immediately. That's when I thought of giving *The Hobbit* a try. It's a six hours read at max and I enjoyed reading every word of it. The story is about a hobbit and his dwarf friends and how they ventured into a dragon's lair to claim the gold that once belonged to them. The fact that they made three movies out of this still surprises me. I haven't watched the movies yet but even if you have watched, I would still recommend it if you like reading fantasy.  

3. __The Housekeeper and the Professor:__ I can't recall how I found this book but I'm glad I did. It's about a mathematics professor whose memory lasts only for 80 minutes and a housekeeper who is appointed for taking care of him. The book is quite short but the characters are well developed and memorable. It's a book that will leave you with a smile on your face when you'll reach the end.  

4. __Brain: The Story of You:__ This book is mostly a written version of a typical show about how our brain works on *Discovery channel* . If you are interested in knowing about what's going inside our brain, how it works and the current researches that are going on this field, pick this up.  

5. __Sapiens:__ This book was a long pending one in my reading list. Finally got some time and finished it. It felt like reading a big lecture on anthropology. The starting one third was so much fun to read that I finished it in one go. Rest of the book took some time. It doesn't mean that the last two third is boring or bad, it's just not as engaging as first few chapters. Usually it's the other way round. In most of the books interesting part comes in the middle of the book but that is not the case here. I also felt that in later parts of the book, author tried to impose some of his assumptions that needed more research. But that's just my personal opinion. May be you should read review of someone who is more experienced in this field. Overall a nice read and worth the time.  

6. __1984:__ 1984's world is set in dystopian future where living conditions are miserable, common man is deprived of information and constantly monitored by some superior order. I felt the writing is dry at some places but since the plot is good, you won't have to drag yourself. I won't spoil the plot but it's a good read and you won't be disappointed if you like reading sci-fi. On a side not I'd also like to mention the book *Brave New World* by __Aldous Huxley__. Both the books are set in far future but take different approaches on how humanity would evolve with time and technology. Since I've read both the books, I can say for sure that these books should be read back to back.  

7. __The Kite Runner:__ It's a story about a boy Amir, set in Afghanistan of early 70's and today. Amir is nothing like his father who is a tough man with macho personality and this makes it hard for him to please his father. He has a close friend Hassan, who is the son of his father's servant Ali. One day something happens that changes everything between Amir and Hassan. After Soviet military comes to Afghanistan, Amir and his father leave the country. Almost 20 years later past knocks back and Amir has to go back to Afghanistan which is now under the control of Taliban. The writing is brilliant and filled with emotions. There's nothing special about the book. It's a one time read and a great time pass. Recommended for emotional story lovers.

So those were the books that I read in 2018. Let me know in the comments what did you read in 2018. And if you read some books from the above list, how was your experience? 
